OIDC configuration (#1375)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/06-integrations/00-kubernetes.md

  As you build your cluster, check that the ``podCIDR`` value does not overlap with any hosts or with the service network and the ``serviceClusterIpRange`` value does not overlap with any IP ranges assigned to nodes or pods. For more information, refer to the [Clusters](/clusters) guide and [Cluster Deployment Errors](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/troubleshooting/cluster-deployment). 

- Manually configure a third-party OIDC IDP. For more information, check out [Configure Custom OIDC](/integrations/kubernetes#configurecustomoidc). 

- Add a certificate for the Spectro Proxy pack if you want to use a reverse proxy with a Kubernetes cluster. For more information, refer to the [Spectro Proxy](/integrations/frp) guide.

#### Configuration Changes

The PXK Kubeadm configuration is updated to dynamically enable OIDC based on your IDP selection by adding the ``identityProvider`` parameter. 

<br />

```yaml
palette:
   config:
     dashboard:
       identityProvider: <your_idp_selection>
```

<br />

### Configure OIDC Identity Provider

> Platforms that use PXK can use the OIDC IDP feature. When you add the PXK pack to a cluster profile, Palette displays the following OIDC IDP options. 

Reviewer: Let's expand a bit on this sentence "Platforms that use PXK can use the OIDC IDP feature". 

This is one of the value propositions of PXK, our flavor of Kubernetes, where we offer a convenient experience for managing OIDC at the Kubernetes layer. Users can leverage Palette as an IDP, and having Palette as an option for the IDP is a benefit because you don't have to worry about configuring a 3rd party IDP. Now, this option is not useful for say mature companies that have their own IDP configured and widely used within their systems, but for smaller organizations or newer companies, this is an attractive option in the early days when capital is limited. 

We also support the ability to easily take advantage of other OIDC providers if they are configured at the Tenant level, or they can add the OIDC configurations to this cluster. 

You can also use this as an opportunity to select a different OIDC if you don't want to use one configured at the tenant level. Say, Okta is the default OIDC idp configured at the tenant level, but for this cluster you want to use Azure AD for X reason.

Author: @karl-cardenas-coding Thanks for providing insights into the use case. Revised to say:

"Platforms that use PXK can use the OIDC IDP feature, which offers the convenience of managing OIDC at the Kubernetes layer. The OIDC IDP feature is particularly useful for environments that do not have their own IDP configured. In this scenario, you can leverage Palette as an IDP without having to configure a third-party IDP. We also support the ability to take advantage of other OIDC providers by making it possible for you to configure OIDC at the tenant level. For additional flexibility, if you wish to use a different IDP than the one configured at the tenant level, you can select a different IDP by adding the OIDC configuration to your cluster profile."

- **Inherit from Tenant**: This setting allows you to apply RBAC to multiple clusters and requires you to configure OpenID Connect (OIDC) in **Tenant Settings**. In Tenant Admin scope, navigate to **Tenant Settings** > **SSO**, choose **OIDC**, and provide your third-party IDP details. This setting displays in the YAML file as `tenant`. For more information, check out the [SSO Setup](/user-management/saml-sso) guide.

<InfoBox>

If your IDP uses Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) authentication, then the **Inherit from Tenant** option will not work, and you will need to use the **Custom** option instead. This is because Kubernetes supports only OIDC authentication and not SAML authentication.

</InfoBox>

### Configure Custom OIDC

The custom method to configure OIDC and apply RBAC for an OIDC provider can be used for all cloud services except Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) and [Azure-AKS](/clusters/public-cloud/azure/aks/#configureanazureactivedirectory).

<br />

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Custom OIDC Setup" key="Custom OIDC Setup">

> Follow these steps to configure a third-party OIDC IDP. You can apply these steps to all the public cloud providers except [Azure-AKS](/clusters/public-cloud/azure/aks/#configureanazureactivedirectory) and Amazon [EKS](/integrations/oidc-eks/) clusters. Azure AKS and Amazon EKS require different configurations.

Reviewer: Two notes about this paragraph:

1. The EKS link is incorrect and will cause a broken URL. Where are you trying to take the user? TO the tab? If so, let's guide them to the tab.
2. Yes, AKS is different but let's help the reader by providing context. Because if you click on the URL you get dropped into an Azure AD page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to configure a third-party OIDC IDP. You can apply these steps to all the public cloud providers except Azure AKS and Amazon [EKS](/integrations/oidc-eks/) clusters. Azure AKS and Amazon EKS require different configurations. AKS requires you to use Azure AAD to enable OIDC integration. Refer to the [Configure an Azure Active Directory](/clusters/public-cloud/azure/aks/#configureanazureactivedirectory) to learn more.
```

Author: Fixed.

    usernamePrefix: "-"
    groupsClaim: "groups"
    groupsPrefix: ""
    requiredClaims:
```

2. Under the `clientConfig` parameter section of Kubernetes pack, uncomment the `oidc-` configuration lines.

```yaml
clientConfig:
  oidc-issuer-url: "{{ .spectro.pack.kubernetes-eks.managedControlPlane.oidcIdentityProvider.issuerUrl }}"
  oidc-client-id: "{{ .spectro.pack.kubernetes-eks.managedControlPlane.oidcIdentityProvider.clientId }}"
  oidc-client-secret: 1gsranjjmdgahm10j8r6m47ejokm9kafvcbhi3d48jlc3rfpprhv
  oidc-extra-scope: profile,email
```

</Tabs.TabPane>

</Tabs>

### Use RBAC with OIDC

You can create a role binding that uses individual users as the subject or specify a group name as the subject to map many users to a role. The group name is the group assigned in the OIDC provider's configuration.

Assume you created a group named `dev-east-2` within an OIDC provider. If you configure the host cluster's Kubernetes pack with all the correct OIDC settings, you could then create a role binding for the `dev-east-2` group. 

![A subject of the type group is assigned as the subject in a RoleBinding](/clusters_cluster-management_cluster-rbac_cluster-subject-group.png)

> In this example, all users in the `dev-east-2` would inherit the `cluster-admin` role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, Palette is used as the IDP, and all users in the group `dev-east-2` are assigned `cluster-admin` role.
```

@ritawatson where in the example are users assigned to the `dev-east-2` group? I'm not sure I understand this example configuration.

Author: Fixed. Also moved example config after "Configuration Changes".
